Create monorepos.md (#13693)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/pages/configuration/monorepos.md

---
pcx_content_type: concept
title: Monorepos
---

> # Monorepos

Reviewer: Reuse diagram from blog post?

> While some apps are built from a repository’s root, Pages also supports apps with more complex setups. A monorepo is a repository that has multiple subdirectories each containing its own application.

Reviewer: Can we say something about "single repository" rather than "repository's root"? (not everyone will intuit what this means)

Reviewer 2: +1

Referring to repository's root also might cause ambiguity with build configuration. Even with a monorepo, I might set my project root to be the same as my repository root even when I'm specifically building something in a subdirectory.

## Set up

> You can create multiple projects with the same repository. You have the option to set the root directory of your project to tell Pages where you would like your build command to run. All project names must be unique even if connected to the same repository.

Reviewer: This doesn't tell me how to setup?

Reviewer 2: We added a link to the create project page. The setup would be the same as a typical non-monorepo pages project.

## Builds

> When you connect a monorepo to Pages, any change to that repository despite the path will trigger a build to Pages by default. To avoid duplicative builds, you can [include/exclude build watch paths](/pages/configuration/build-watch-paths) to specify if Pages should skip a build.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you connect a git repository to Pages, by default a change to any file in the repository will trigger a Pages build.

When using a monorepo, this means that by default, if you change a file in the directory of Project A, then a build for Project B will also be triggered, even though nothing in Project B changed.

To avoid such duplicate builds, you can [include/exclude build watch paths](/pages/configuration/build-watch-paths) to specify if Pages should skip a build for a given path.
```

Feels like example helpful here. Check for accuracy. Need to show more explicitly

## Git integration

> Once you've created a separate project for each of the directories within your Git repository, each commit will issue a new build and deployment for all connected projects unless specified in your branch watch paths configuration. Your git source will display separate comments for each project with the updated project and deployment URL.

Reviewer: Having hard time following — present in series of steps

Reviewer 2: It's not a series of steps. We tried to split it up/simplify though.

### GitHub check runs and GitLab commit statuses

> If you have multiple projects associated with your repository, your check run/commit status will appear like the following on your repository:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have multiple projects associated with your repository, when you submit a pull request, there will be one "Cloudflare Pages" Status Check for each of your projects
```

Reviewer 2: We should keep using "check run" and "commit status". These are terms specific to Github and Gitlab respectively.

Reviewer: If we do this — can we link to relevant docs pages for each?

My only 2c here is that Github usage is far higher, more people familiar with terms.

![GitHub check run](/images/pages/configuration/ghcheckrun.png)
![GitLab commit status](/images/pages/configuration/glcommitstatus.png)

If a build skips for any reason (i.e. CI Skip, build watch paths, or branch deployment controls), the check run/commit status will not appear.

## Monorepo management tools:

> It is common to use additional tooling when bringing a monorepo to Pages to help manage your repository. For simple subpackage management, you can utilize tools like [npm](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v8/using-npm/workspaces), [pnpm](https://pnpm.io/workspaces), and [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/features/workspaces) workspaces. You can also use more powerful tools such as [Turborepo](https://turbo.build/repo/docs), [NX](https://nx.dev/getting-started/intro), or [Lerna](https://nx.dev/getting-started/intro) to additionally manage dependencies and task execution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is common to use additional tooling when bringing a monorepo to Pages to help manage your repository. For simple subpackage management, you can utilize tools like [npm](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v8/using-npm/workspaces), [pnpm](https://pnpm.io/workspaces), and [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/features/workspaces) workspaces. You can also use more powerful tools such as [Turborepo](https://turbo.build/repo/docs), [NX](https://nx.dev/getting-started/intro), or [Lerna](https://nx.dev/getting-started/intro) to additionally manage dependencies and task execution.
```

Show not tell — how?

Reviewer: Is idea here that we'd have /pages/configuration/monorepos/monorepo-mangement-tools page?

Reviewer 2: Not sure if fully explaining monorepo management tools should be in the scope of our docs? IMO we don't need to go into explaining monorepo management tools because it feels like explaining how to use source control or a package manager

Reviewer: My question here as a customer is — "is there anything special I need to do here if I am using one of these tools?"

And, "If I already have the ignore / exclude stuff defined via my own tool — will Pages automatically detect it and respect it, or do I have to configure for Pages?"

Reviewer 2: 1) Nothing special needed. We added some text to hopefully make that a bit more clear.
2) Pages doesn't do automatic dependency checking to determine whether or not to skip a build. We called out some tools that can be used to check dependencies and skip builds and how to use them in a build command. I still need to verify that build command though.

## Limitations

> * You must be using Build System V2 or later in order for monorepo support to be enabled.

Reviewer: Link to docs about versioning? How do I turn on v2?

---
pcx_content_type: concept
title: Monorepos
---

# Monorepos
While some apps are built from a repository’s root, Pages also supports apps with more complex setups. A monorepo is a repository that has multiple subdirectories each containing its own application. 

## Set up

> You can create multiple projects with the same repository. You have the option to set the root directory of your project to tell Pages where you would like your build command to run. All project names must be unique even if connected to the same repository. 

Reviewer 3: I think this should be `even if connected to different repositories`

Reviewer 2: It should be "connected to the same repository". We need to specify this because by default we autofill the repo name for the project name in the project creation screen.

## Builds 

> When you connect a monorepo to Pages, any change to that repository despite the path will trigger a build to Pages by default. To avoid duplicative builds, you can include/exclude build watch paths to specify to Pages what to build or skip. See more [here](https://developers.cloudflare.com/pages/configuration/build-watch-paths) on build watch paths.

Reviewer 3: `despite` feels a little confusing here. maybe `regardless of path`?

## Git integration

> Once you've created a separate project for each of the directories within your Git repository, each commit will issue a new build and deployment for all connected projects unless specified in your branch watch paths configuration. Your git source will display separate comments for each project with the updated project and deployment URL. 

Reviewer 3: I think first sentence might be better as `Once you've created a separate Pages project for each of the projects within your Git repository...` since not every directory is necessarily a project. Also, we currently only have PR comments for Github, not Gitlab.

{{<Aside type="note" header="Intelligent build ignores">}}

You can use commands like [`turbo-ignore`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/turbo-ignore) or [`nx-ignore`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/nx-ignore?activeTab=readme) to skip unnecessary builds, however this requires a slightly more complex build command. For example, to check if there were any changes in the previous commit that would trigger a rebuild of the `web` package, you can use the following build command:

```sh
# 1. fetches the previous commit to diff against
# 2. check for changes in `web` and its dependencies, exit the build if there are no changes
# 3. if there are changes, rebuild the site
$ git fetch origin --depth=2 && ! npx turbo-ignore web --task=pages:build && npx turbo pages:build --filter=web
```

> Note that any ignored builds will be marked as `Failed` and will not create a Pages deployment.

Reviewer: Is this a bug?

Author: Not really a bug but can see how it seems that way. Agree not the best DX for users. Removing the aside for now until we implement an ignore builds command which would allow users to more cleanly and programmatically skip builds or properly show the right build status.

Reviewer: If confusing to ppl think worth including in docs so that people understand why they see failed builds.

If a build is marked as failed, and it is a required status check, will that block me from merging?

Reviewer 2: To be clear, this aside is a workaround to the following: Pages allows skipping a build before it has started (branch includes, watch paths), but doesn't _officially_ support allowing users to skip a build that has already started. This aside provides a method to effectively skip a build that is currently running, but it's not graceful, because it marks the build as "Failed".

If a user is normally using turbo, lerna or nx, they won't see builds marked as failed. They would only see failed builds or get confused unless they _elected_ to use this workaround. If we don't explain this option at all:
(1) the user can existing built-in methods of skipping builds, which correctly marks the build as `Skipped`
(2) the user just won't know that this workaround exists so they won't ever see `Failed` builds for this reason unless they figure it out on their own, which I think is fine)

Author: These ignore build commands are generally separate packages from turborepo/lerna/nx and are not part of the core functionality of the monorepo tooling. 

Because of this, I think its ok to not include it (most users will get what they need already). If they need the functionality that ignore build commands can provide, path includes/excludes achieves the same goal. 

I think it's more confusing if we include it and would rather not signal to users that we support this. Note itll still work but the DX will be weird.
